README.md, before:

# Mathematical AMM Toolkit

A demonstration of Fluentbase's blended execution capabilities, showcasing how Rust-based mathematical operations can optimize DeFi protocols while maintaining Solidity for core business logic.

## 🎯 Overview

This project implements an Automated Market Maker (AMM) with two versions:

- **BasicAMM**: Pure Solidity implementation (baseline)
- **BlendedAMM**: Blended execution using a Rust mathematical engine

The Blended AMM leverages Rust for computationally expensive operations, demonstrating:

- **90% gas reduction** on mathematical operations like square root
- **Advanced capabilities** impossible in Solidity (exponential/logarithmic functions)
- **Higher precision** through fixed-point arithmetic

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│            Solidity Layer (EVM)             │
│  - Asset custody & transfers                │
│  - State management                         │
│  - Access control                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                      ↕️
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      Rust Mathematical Engine (WASM)        │
│  - Square root (Newton-Raphson)             │
│  - Dynamic fees (exp/log functions)         │
│  - Slippage calculations                    │
│  - Impermanent loss                         │
│  - Route optimization                       │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation) 
- [gblend](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/gblend) (Foundry fork for Fluent)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (for WASM builds)
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) (optional, for local development)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd mathematical-amm-toolkit

# Initialize and update forge dependencies
make setup
```

### Build & Deploy

```bash
# Build all contracts (Rust + Solidity)
make build

# Deploy to Fluent testnet
make deploy  # Uses RPC from foundry.toml
```

Note: You need to have a `$PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable set. (Use .env file for this).

### Run Benchmarks

```bash
# Run comprehensive gas benchmarks
make test-gas

# Create gas snapshot for tracking
make snapshot
```

## 📊 Benchmark Results

### Gas Comparison

TODO: Update with real reproducible numbers

| Operation | Basic AMM (Solidity) | Blended AMM (Rust) | Savings |
|-----------|---------------------|---------------------|---------|
| Square Root | ~20,000 gas | ~2,000 gas | **90%** |
| Add Liquidity (first) | ~250,000 gas | ~180,000 gas | **28%** |
| Swap | ~150,000 gas | ~120,000 gas | **20%** |
| Dynamic Fee | ❌ Not Possible | ✅ ~5,000 gas | **New Feature** |
| Impermanent Loss | ❌ Not Possible | ✅ ~3,000 gas | **New Feature** |

### Precision Improvements

- **Square Root**: Newton-Raphson (Rust) vs Babylonian method (Solidity)
- **Slippage**: Fixed-point arithmetic eliminates rounding errors
- **LP Tokens**: Geometric mean with full precision

## 🔬 Technical Implementation

### Rust Mathematical Engine

The Rust engine (`rust-contracts/src/lib.rs`) implements:

```rust
pub trait MathematicalEngineAPI {
    fn calculate_precise_square_root(&self, value: U256) -> U256;
    fn calculate_precise_slippage(&self, params: SlippageParams) -> U256;
    fn calculate_dynamic_fee(&self, params: DynamicFeeParams) -> U256;
    fn optimize_swap_amount(&self, ...) -> OptimizationResult;
    fn calculate_lp_tokens(&self, amount0: U256, amount1: U256) -> U256;
    fn calculate_impermanent_loss(&self, ...) -> U256;
    fn find_optimal_route(&self, ...) -> U256;
}
```

#### Key Algorithms

1. **Square Root (Newton-Raphson)**
   - Optimized initial guess using bit manipulation
   - Converges in ~5-7 iterations
   - No floating-point needed - pure fixed-point arithmetic

2. **Dynamic Fees**
   - Exponential volatility adjustment using Taylor series
   - Logarithmic volume discounts
   - Impossible to implement efficiently in Solidity

3. **Fixed-Point Math**
   - All calculations use U256 with 1e18 scaling
   - Custom implementations of exp, ln, and sqrt
   - No precision loss from integer division

### Solidity Integration

The Blended AMM seamlessly calls Rust functions:

```solidity
// Simple interface call - no complex ABI encoding needed
uint256 sqrtResult = mathEngine.calculatePreciseSquareRoot(value);

// Dynamic fee with market parameters
IMathematicalEngine.DynamicFeeParams memory params = 
    IMathematicalEngine.DynamicFeeParams({
        volatility: 200,
        volume24h: 1000 * 1e18,
        liquidityDepth: 100000 * 1e18
    });
uint256 fee = mathEngine.calculateDynamicFee(params);
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── BasicAMM.sol              # Pure Solidity AMM (baseline)
│   └── BlendedAMM.sol           # Blended execution AMM
├── rust-contracts/
│   ├── src/
│   │   └── lib.rs                # Rust mathematical engine
│   └── Cargo.toml                # Rust dependencies
├── script/
│   └── Deploy.s.sol              # Foundry deployment script
├── test/
│   └── GasBenchmark.t.sol        # Gas comparison tests
├── out/
│   └── MathematicalEngine.wasm/
│       ├── MathematicalEngine.wasm  # Compiled WASM
│       └── interface.sol            # Auto-generated interface
├── Makefile                      # Convenience commands
└── foundry.toml                  # Foundry configuration
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Available Commands

```bash
make help          # Show all available commands
make build         # Build all contracts
make test          # Run all tests
make test-gas      # Run gas benchmarks
make deploy        # Deploy all contracts
make snapshot      # Create gas snapshot
make clean         # Clean build artifacts
```

### Testing Individual Components

```bash
# Test only math engine
forge test --match-test testMathEngineDirectly -vvv

# Test specific operation
forge test --match-test testSwapGasComparison -vvv

# Run with gas report
forge test --gas-report
```

### Deployment Options

```bash
# Deploy individual contracts
make deploy-rust   # Just the math engine
make deploy-amm    # Just the AMM contracts

# Deploy with custom RPC
forge script script/Deploy.s.sol:Deploy \
    --rpc-url <YOUR_RPC> \
    --broadcast
```

## 🔍 Key Insights

### When to Use Blended Execution

✅ **Good Use Cases:**

- Complex mathematical operations (sqrt, exp, log)
- Optimization algorithms (routing, portfolio balancing)
- Statistical calculations (volatility, correlations)
- Operations requiring high precision

❌ **Keep in Solidity:**

- Simple arithmetic (addition, multiplication)
- Token transfers and custody
- Access control and permissions
- State management

### Gas Optimization Strategy

1. **Identify Computational Bottlenecks**
   - Profile existing contracts
   - Find expensive loops or calculations

2. **Implement in Rust**
   - Use efficient algorithms (Newton-Raphson vs Babylonian)
   - Leverage native operations
   - Batch operations when possible

3. **Minimize Cross-VM Calls**
   - Group related calculations
   - Pass structs instead of multiple parameters
   - Cache results when appropriate

## 🎯 Success Metrics

This implementation demonstrates:

- ✅ **50-90% gas reduction** on mathematical operations
- ✅ **New capabilities** (dynamic fees, IL calculation)
- ✅ **Higher precision** in financial calculations
- ✅ **Clean integration** pattern for blended execution
- ✅ **Production-ready** architecture

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Areas for improvement:

- Additional curve types (stable swap, concentrated liquidity)
- More optimization algorithms
- Cross-pool routing
- MEV protection mechanisms

## 📚 Resources

- [Fluentbase Documentation](https://docs.fluentlabs.xyz)
- [gblend GitHub](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/gblend)
- [Foundry Book](https://book.getfoundry.sh)
- [Fluent Examples](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/examples)

## 📜 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

---

**Built to showcase the future of hybrid blockchain applications with Fluentbase** 🚀

Commit message:

refactor: scripts improved profile logic

README.md, after:

# Mathematical AMM Toolkit

A demonstration of Fluentbase's blended execution capabilities, showcasing how Rust-based mathematical operations can optimize DeFi protocols while maintaining Solidity for core business logic.

## 🎯 Overview

This project implements an Automated Market Maker (AMM) with two versions:

- **BasicAMM**: Pure Solidity implementation (baseline)
- **BlendedAMM**: Blended execution using a Rust mathematical engine

The Blended AMM leverages Rust for computationally expensive operations, demonstrating:

- **90% gas reduction** on mathematical operations like square root
- **Advanced capabilities** impossible in Solidity (exponential/logarithmic functions)
- **Higher precision** through fixed-point arithmetic

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│            Solidity Layer (EVM)             │
│  - Asset custody & transfers                │
│  - State management                         │
│  - Access control                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                      ↕️
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│      Rust Mathematical Engine (WASM)        │
│  - Square root (Newton-Raphson)             │
│  - Dynamic fees (exp/log functions)         │
│  - Slippage calculations                    │
│  - Impermanent loss                         │
│  - Route optimization                       │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation) 
- [gblend](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/gblend) (Foundry fork for Fluent)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (for WASM builds)
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) (optional, for local development)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd mathematical-amm-toolkit

# Initialize and update forge dependencies
make setup
```

### Build & Deploy

```bash
# Build all contracts (Rust + Solidity)
make build

# Deploy to Fluent testnet (default)
make deploy

# Deploy to Fluent devnet
make deploy-devnet

# Deploy to specific network using profile
forge script script/Deploy.s.sol --profile testnet --broadcast
forge script script/Deploy.s.sol --profile devnet --broadcast
```

Note: You need to have a `$PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable set. (Use .env file for this).

### Network Configuration

The project automatically detects networks using chain IDs:

- **Testnet**: Chain ID `20994` → `./deployments/testnet.json`
- **Devnet**: Chain ID `20993` → `./deployments/devnet.json`

The deployment scripts automatically detect which network they're running on and use the appropriate deployment file. Foundry profiles are used for RPC URLs and other configuration.

### Smart Token Deployment

The deployment script intelligently handles tokens:
- **Use existing tokens** by adding their addresses to the deployment file
- **Deploy new mock tokens** if no addresses are provided
- **Mix and match** existing and new tokens as needed

### Run Benchmarks

```bash
# Run comprehensive gas benchmarks
make test-gas

# Create gas snapshot for tracking
make snapshot
```

## 📊 Benchmark Results

### Gas Comparison

TODO: Update with real reproducible numbers

| Operation | Basic AMM (Solidity) | Blended AMM (Rust) | Savings |
|-----------|---------------------|---------------------|---------|
| Square Root | ~20,000 gas | ~2,000 gas | **90%** |
| Add Liquidity (first) | ~250,000 gas | ~180,000 gas | **28%** |
| Swap | ~150,000 gas | ~120,000 gas | **20%** |
| Dynamic Fee | ❌ Not Possible | ✅ ~5,000 gas | **New Feature** |
| Impermanent Loss | ❌ Not Possible | ✅ ~3,000 gas | **New Feature** |

### Precision Improvements

- **Square Root**: Newton-Raphson (Rust) vs Babylonian method (Solidity)
- **Slippage**: Fixed-point arithmetic eliminates rounding errors
- **LP Tokens**: Geometric mean with full precision

## 🔬 Technical Implementation

### Rust Mathematical Engine

The Rust engine (`rust-contracts/src/lib.rs`) implements:

```rust
pub trait MathematicalEngineAPI {
    fn calculate_precise_square_root(&self, value: U256) -> U256;
    fn calculate_precise_slippage(&self, params: SlippageParams) -> U256;
    fn calculate_dynamic_fee(&self, params: DynamicFeeParams) -> U256;
    fn optimize_swap_amount(&self, ...) -> OptimizationResult;
    fn calculate_lp_tokens(&self, amount0: U256, amount1: U256) -> U256;
    fn calculate_impermanent_loss(&self, ...) -> U256;
    fn find_optimal_route(&self, ...) -> U256;
}
```

#### Key Algorithms

1. **Square Root (Newton-Raphson)**
   - Optimized initial guess using bit manipulation
   - Converges in ~5-7 iterations
   - No floating-point needed - pure fixed-point arithmetic

2. **Dynamic Fees**
   - Exponential volatility adjustment using Taylor series
   - Logarithmic volume discounts
   - Impossible to implement efficiently in Solidity

3. **Fixed-Point Math**
   - All calculations use U256 with 1e18 scaling
   - Custom implementations of exp, ln, and sqrt
   - No precision loss from integer division

### Solidity Integration

The Blended AMM seamlessly calls Rust functions:

```solidity
// Simple interface call - no complex ABI encoding needed
uint256 sqrtResult = mathEngine.calculatePreciseSquareRoot(value);

// Dynamic fee with market parameters
IMathematicalEngine.DynamicFeeParams memory params = 
    IMathematicalEngine.DynamicFeeParams({
        volatility: 200,
        volume24h: 1000 * 1e18,
        liquidityDepth: 100000 * 1e18
    });
uint256 fee = mathEngine.calculateDynamicFee(params);
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── BasicAMM.sol              # Pure Solidity AMM (baseline)
│   └── BlendedAMM.sol           # Blended execution AMM
├── rust-contracts/
│   ├── src/
│   │   └── lib.rs                # Rust mathematical engine
│   └── Cargo.toml                # Rust dependencies
├── script/
│   └── Deploy.s.sol              # Foundry deployment script
├── test/
│   └── GasBenchmark.t.sol        # Gas comparison tests
├── out/
│   └── MathematicalEngine.wasm/
│       ├── MathematicalEngine.wasm  # Compiled WASM
│       └── interface.sol            # Auto-generated interface
├── Makefile                      # Convenience commands
└── foundry.toml                  # Foundry configuration
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Available Commands

```bash
make help          # Show all available commands
make build         # Build all contracts
make test          # Run all tests
make test-gas      # Run gas benchmarks
make deploy        # Deploy all contracts
make snapshot      # Create gas snapshot
make clean         # Clean build artifacts
```

### Testing Individual Components

```bash
# Test only math engine
forge test --match-test testMathEngineDirectly -vvv

# Test specific operation
forge test --match-test testSwapGasComparison -vvv

# Run with gas report
forge test --gas-report
```

### Deployment Options

```bash
# Deploy individual contracts
make deploy-rust   # Just the math engine
make deploy-amm    # Just the AMM contracts

# Deploy with custom RPC
forge script script/Deploy.s.sol:Deploy \
    --rpc-url <YOUR_RPC> \
    --broadcast
```

## 🔍 Key Insights

### When to Use Blended Execution

✅ **Good Use Cases:**

- Complex mathematical operations (sqrt, exp, log)
- Optimization algorithms (routing, portfolio balancing)
- Statistical calculations (volatility, correlations)
- Operations requiring high precision

❌ **Keep in Solidity:**

- Simple arithmetic (addition, multiplication)
- Token transfers and custody
- Access control and permissions
- State management

### Gas Optimization Strategy

1. **Identify Computational Bottlenecks**
   - Profile existing contracts
   - Find expensive loops or calculations

2. **Implement in Rust**
   - Use efficient algorithms (Newton-Raphson vs Babylonian)
   - Leverage native operations
   - Batch operations when possible

3. **Minimize Cross-VM Calls**
   - Group related calculations
   - Pass structs instead of multiple parameters
   - Cache results when appropriate

## 🎯 Success Metrics

This implementation demonstrates:

- ✅ **50-90% gas reduction** on mathematical operations
- ✅ **New capabilities** (dynamic fees, IL calculation)
- ✅ **Higher precision** in financial calculations
- ✅ **Clean integration** pattern for blended execution
- ✅ **Production-ready** architecture

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Areas for improvement:

- Additional curve types (stable swap, concentrated liquidity)
- More optimization algorithms
- Cross-pool routing
- MEV protection mechanisms

## 📚 Resources

- [Fluentbase Documentation](https://docs.fluentlabs.xyz)
- [gblend GitHub](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/gblend)
- [Foundry Book](https://book.getfoundry.sh)
- [Fluent Examples](https://github.com/fluentlabs-xyz/examples)

## 📜 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

---

**Built to showcase the future of hybrid blockchain applications with Fluentbase** 🚀
